hey everyone Google stadia that we paid
$130 for is not working so we're gonna
take the controller apart while we wait
for it to work it's been the most
frustrating product setup that we've
given ten through in the and probably
quite a while and I guess we'll talk a
little bit about that briefly in this
video this is mostly going to be a
teardown though of the new Google stadia
controller which we can fortunately we
have the time to take it apart because
again the product that I paid $130 for
isn't working so let's get into it we're
gonna take apart the controller today
and see how it's constructed see if
Google has at least a good handle on the
hardware side of things before that this
video is brought to you by the
Thermaltake Corp III the Corp III is one
of the most versatile cases on the
market it includes a wall mounting
hardware if a showcase is what you're
after but it can also run as a standing
or horizontal test bench making it
highly accessible for modifying and
overclocking hardware the case includes
tempered glass and an open-air layout
for easy management and high visibility
offering a truly unique chassis for
enthusiasts learn more at the link in
the description below we'll talk about
the products not working things in a
separate video I guess probably probably
more of a review but basically you get
so first of all it doesn't seem like it
works with the organization accounts
meaning G suite which is a gmail account
with for example at gamers nexus net
instead of at gmail.com but that's what
it let me purchase the product on but it
doesn't look like it works with that
account so we made another one and we
also didn't get the activation code I
guess it got lost in the digital Mail
USPS missed its stop for me or something
so we don't have the activation code it
probably won't work anyway I'd buy it
again except we won't get the activation
code and also you need a Google pixel
phone to download the app to register
the product even though you don't need
the Google pixel to use the product
because you can play in Google Chrome or
with the chromecast and we tried that
too by the way but anyway we don't have
an activation code it's all very
frustrating let's take this apart maybe
that'll help first of all there's no
screws on the bottom I guess we'll do a
walk through the controller
left and right two bumpers basically
start and select or the equivalents
thereof anyway not quite sure what these
do yet because it doesn't work stadia
button so do we just have to split it I
think we just have to split the plastic
because there's no screws anywhere so
that means it's gonna be clips which
means I'm gonna need a shim which isn't
meant to be a mean con it's just a lot
of these products controllers and
console products aren't particularly
easy to take apart although the Xbox was
they have some documentation it says
safety and regulatory guide for stadia
controller do not attempt to repair your
stadia control yourself disassembling
the device may cause injury to you
unauthorized repairs or modifications
could result in permanent damage to the
device and may affect your warranty
coverage hmm that's probably never off
it's probably listening that's probably
a microphone I bet that's what it is
Google Google computer how quaint
but if you scratch over it you can't
feel any holes I guess it's probably
something in there though it's like a
hard plastic ring yeah
use a heat gun can you see that bubbling
effect
this might be successful oh yeah there
we go
they don't make that easy
okay so I tried to do the sort of like
experienced way of just feel well just
it's kind of hot feeling through the
plastic I didn't feel any holes but
that's because it's like hard plastic
and then there's glue on the bottom so
we'll clean that up there it is a single
screw looks like a TR nine torques nine
is the size we've taken apart a good
amount of controllers actually in the
last two years and I haven't had to use
a heat gun on any of them so that's new
normally they don't hide the screws
because they're not trying to pretend
they're Apple they just let the screws
be visible which is really the best for
everybody that's for our ma best for the
user but whatever it's not super
difficult to get the thing off and then
I can just I can warp it back into its
original self by heating it again if we
need to but anyway that's a Torx 9 is it
gonna just like fall apart now hmm
that's the solution crush it open I
don't know it's not strong enough and
you know you started sticking up
flathead in there and you just scratch
everything up starts trying to avoid
that
[Applause]
don't hey I didn't make it malleable
haha the pry bar sock into the plastic I
had to back off of it so he doesn't like
permanently just change the shape of the
controller I let it harden a little bit
much better that's room temperature
perfect so to open the Google stadia
controller you need a heat gun and
liquid nitrogen
I've actually cooled it too much yeah I
could have melted up I don't know if
that's like from the grease earlier from
handling it or if it's actually just the
plastic is now that color melted off the
coating the was that screw doing
like it's even the point of this screw
okay now we might be able to do
something oh my god definitely this
thing I'd be shocked if it still works
even right now
with the amount of flex like we probably
cracked PCBs and stuff but I'm kind of
at the point where I want to just rip it
apart I just like with a more aggressive
tool that's an army I we could
tactically still return it I thought
finally cuz in my controller I don't
know I bought it for my grandson well if
I destroy it and get it open then we can
figure out how it was supposed to be
disassembled house it's not just
exploding off right now
[Music]
[Laughter]
there's a wire nice got it
oh okay I found what was holding it
together okay so I was like there has to
be a better way to do this and I'm sure
we're just doing it wrong and I thought
we'd pull this apart and figure out how
to do it and then do it on the other
controller properly to demonstrate that
but we have time constraints like
scheduling constraints like crazy so I
decided you know let's just let's just
get this thing open and we'll figure out
how its assembled by destroying it and
then we'll know for the next one so I
actually don't feel bad about doing that
there what we end up doing we just took
a dremel to the side this is the
expected the Google authorized way to
open your controller took a dremel to
the side of it there's a ribbon cable
you have to be careful that I I think it
actually still I'm still talking about
it like it's a normal teardown like oh
yeah just take the drum with other side
you have to be careful of the PCB it now
I think you're pretty much done at that
point but anyway I think it still works
probably I didn't clip anything that
mattered but anyway the clips are
massive these are the clips and the sad
part is I'm like better laptops there's
a lot of bad ones too but I'm like the
good laptops you can't really even get a
small flathead in here which this isn't
but you can't get a smaller one in here
either
I broke those and and get to this clip
you like ideally what would happen is
you'd kind of pry a little bit and look
in and try and find where the clips are
and then you would go in with a flat
head and try to depress the clip but
even when it's exposed like I can barely
I can barely move that thing when I have
full leverage on it so I don't know
there's maybe there's a better way but
I'm not convinced there is and I
definitely don't feel bad about cutting
it open that way because it was just
getting ridiculous
I kept thinking there
has to be a hidden screw somewhere there
has to be it's like I was looking on the
inside and I could see what I thought
was an arrow on the rumble pack but
actually it was just a scratch and I
thought maybe there's like something
inside react like insert a screwdriver
and turn it the right direction to move
some plastic lever out of the way
nope it's just massive Clips all the way
around and it does not slide so Patrick
had a great point of all this stuff is
these are attached there but the buttons
are attached to the top so like it
would've been smart if Google just had
it so you release the screw from the
underside and then you could just like
me if they attach these up top you slide
it off or otherwise just maybe clips
that aren't quite so insane that was way
uncalled for Google's got NVIDIA beat
overcomplicating their assembly at least
send videos products even though they
were insane and had 80 screws and glue I
was able to non-destructively
disassemble them and get them back
together and you'd like for the most
part you can't really tell other than
the faceplates missing on one of them
but otherwise they're fine so whatever
anyway let's look at it okay so if you
want your own mod matte like the one I'm
working on that has protected our table
from now five hundred plus degrees
Fahrenheit of heat liquid nitrogen and
to some extent a dremel you can go to
store that gamers access net and pick
one up we make these and we have them in
stock and shipping those are on the
store we also have a smaller version if
you want to if you don't have as much
table space that was easy enough that's
that's a damn hard google this is
starting to look like every other
controller I've ever disassembled now so
you have some carbon contact pads and
there's your switches buttons carbon
contact I think is what these are I'm
not 100% positive on that these are just
standard switches that depress and then
there's our single LED on the device
right there underneath the I keep going
for flat heads but they're all I have a
flat head graveyard right now these are
pretty simple same as a Nintendo switch
and everything else just got four hooks
in it this one actually annoyingly
doesn't look like it forces alignment
this switch does a really good job of
that go back I'm not ready yet the
switch has a keen on its plastic yeah
there you go it has a keen that only
allows them to orient one direction
which is really a nice touch actually
but this does not have that so Google
probably just what's there it's really
it's for the factory workers it's not
for customers it's so that they can
assemble things properly and quickly
alright there's your X Y a B or whatever
they call it hell they just the same
names okay I take it back I think that
one is actually keyed that's good it's
all the same this is all just rubber
rubber and abs plastic for the shell
which actually if you question that is
that's how I know it says abs on it I've
gotten f6 two on the down here I don't
know what that means yet I don't know
why I'm bothering to put this back
together like this that's doesn't plan
on using it Google's not gonna let me
use it anyway
service doesn't work this case your real
number this thing's kind of interesting
let's look at this d-pad yeah
how does this work oh I see okay
got it so this goes on something like
that and then when you push on the d-pad
it's going to use this lever this
plastic lever at the end of that to push
down on this yes this this ribbon cable
is gonna be for for input transfer from
these buttons and power for the LED back
into the main board and the Antalya
power board or at least power delivery
and we've got some numbers on the top
but they don't mean anything to me I
don't it's not like a part number or
anything it's project manufacturing
stamps let's move this stuff out of the
way
okay back to tr9 okay they're like you
know what let's use torques because
that's a common way to try and prevent
consumers from going any further as
torques as if a customer could get this
far to begin with so andrew is asking
off-camera what this frame is for and
I'm not sure yet but I think it's
probably just structural support and
rigidity for the button presses but
we'll find out okay we've got cable
connected on the bottom it's a PCB in
the bottom it is a socketed cable that's
kind of nice I don't know why that's
where they decided to make it modular
seems like an odd spot these should just
fall away that's how they're normally
held in on these controllers we took a
part of the PS classic and the an old
ps1 controller I think we did a all
non-destructively mind year we did the
Nintendo switch that was kind of a
nightmare the first time we did it but
it wasn't bad the second time pretty
easy
it took apart the superboy SFC that
wasn't super easy but also
non-destructive there's your sprains
just a I've got the left and right
buttons here hooked up with a sprain
spring tensioned and that should hit a
button that I may have already
disconnected these bumpers have contact
pads up top and there's will contact
with these right here
it's the bumpers will move in and hit
this switch so that's just a switch not
like a carbon contact retainer standard
button
so the original screw was here and that
would have come through this housing on
the bottom part of the chassis there's a
button right there come through that
housing and and then past up into this
and just secure to the top look like it
no
so that just screwed into this chassis
let's get these off
there's your analog sticks if you're
curious about how those work there's
what it looks like inside it's got what
looks like just like a little plastic
catch on either side to return to
position and guide and then it's a ball
joint for the movement and it snaps back
to position its disconnect these these
are power cables black and Red's can we
power to the rumble packs which right
here is an old old invention just should
just be a electromagnet it's just a big
electromagnet it might be glued in there
though I think they actually are glued
in there oh yeah those are glid these
are actually held in by glue whatever at
this point at this point it's not like
anything they do is gonna be better than
what we dealt with but there's the glue
to be fair this is a the only moving
part in the device so having a bit more
security seems okay I'm actually not not
too mad about that one you can feel a
force though
so you have to release this you have to
first push the board that way you can
see this locks this ones wider so you
push it that way to release tension on
this and then you squish that now I
should be able to get the other side so
why is this here well I don't have an
answer for that it looks like because to
Andrews earlier point more standard
controllers modern controllers have the
rigidity without needing an
undercarriage but this seems to be used
to just hold everything in place I guess
I don't know they didn't want to use
screws and maybe that's what it is they
didn't want to use screws in the body of
the controller that were visit visible
externally so they use them internally
to hold it all together into this and so
the controller in the middle we could
pop that housing off it really felt like
it I guess for the parts if anyone wants
this just for future reference I'll note
them if some repair person out there
wants to torture themselves opening
these and repairing controllers the
module on the left over here I haven't I
could look up the data sheets for these
I guess but cut it done with this
controller this is an MI m XR t 1:06 one
next to that a j19 two three bottom of
the controller that looks like a battery
so if you ever need to replace the
battery on your controller the solution
is that's how you replace the battery
because actually getting to this really
sucked
I don't know maybe there'll be an easier
way unlike later models or something
see what kind of battery it is at least
it's glue just hot glue down there it's
likely holding the cable and you pull it
out and then what is the battery well I
can tell you but they covered it up
gli b18 I wants to get this pad off so
into the voltage in the amps not too bad
you could actually put that back if you
wanted to but I don't and it is three
point eight volts 2000 milliamp hours
seven point six watt hours that's gonna
be your replacement if you want to if
you want to replace the battery in your
controller if it dies later a couple
years from now or something there's one
more small PCB down here so that
corresponds to that thing that's got to
be a Mike thinking that's a Mike so the
Google assistant or whatever that's
stupid thin is the spyware that's gonna
be located down here it looks like your
your controller sucks
okay think that should get back to them
they'll find a way oh my phone's in my
pocket they already heard that okay
that's it let's tear down hook the
Google stadia controller well we've torn
down controllers before taking apart
quite a lot of things like like hundreds
in the last probably two years of
different things including some of the
most complex video cards we worked with
like the colorful kuden that was a
difficult one
the r-tx 2060 it was a difficult one
none of the like the switch was kind of
a challenge but not that bad the switch
controller was obnoxious to put back
together but not that bad it was
non-destructive everything worked
afterwards this might still work I just
don't care it's a difference I just I
just don't care if it does yeah it is
not easy to ours was not easy to take
apart I'll say that and what we've
learned here yeah
remember there were no instructions for
this there were no other videos of this
we were the first ones in terms of like
in our own world that maybe someone else
has already taken one apart but they
haven't published anything so I was
working in isolation on this and I think
what I'd take away from it is it's the
top that has the cliffs on it what did
you call them monster clips stuff that
has monster clips on them on it and it
seems like the trick would be to try to
line your screwdriver up with a picture
of it like like that and then just try
and get in there and hit them but the
problem is you're gonna scratch the hell
and chip the hell out of the the outside
and then even if you push one of these
in which I was able to do with this
right like pretty early on we were able
to offset this up before we started
destroying things and that's because
it's here alone but over on this side
there's two immediately next to it so
you're gonna need maybe another person
and you'll have to get something in to
pry this one and then at least to
probably this one and probably you'll
need a second person to hit that third
one to pop it off the side you maybe do
it yourself if you've got enough really
skinny tools to work with on it I think
you guys to do that again on the right
side and it was just easier to use a
dremel so and it'll still come back
together I'll just be some tape or
something that's gonna be it for this
one hopefully we can actually do some
content on stadia itself I have another
controller don't worry we will be using
the other controller for that testing
but that's assuming we can get the
product to actually work we'll see
waiting on the access code
it was $130 and and also Google allowed
me to register with an account that it
seems like it shouldn't have so it was
it allowed me to spend money on an
account that can't register with the
product because it's a G suite account
which is done by Google but haha you
might be confused Gmail is definitely
not also a Google product even though G
suite uses Gmail as a foundation Google
doesn't seem to want G suite users
whatever we're gonna we made a different
account for it so
we'll see subscribe for more we're gonna
start on Cameron's axis night to grab a
mod mat like this one in the very least
this video has proven that it can
withstand quite a few different tools
and you go to patreon.com/scishow gamers
exits outside directly thanks for
watching we'll see you all next time
[Music]